Renewable energy

Even though, a specific exceptional politician might disagree, 
most countries have agreed (Paris) on the important role it has to play in the worldwide enery mix,
if we want a sustainable future for us all.

Renewable energy makes use of inexhaustible sources that do not pollute the atmosphere with greenhouses gases as much as conventional energy production does.
Among those sustainable alternatives are energy production from wind, water, rain, tides, biomass and the mighty sun.  

Let's look at our country, the Netherlands. Which is regarded an international leader in water management, and home to reputable universities
researching sun-driven cars and algal biomass production.

So, let's zoom in, and look at the production of renewable energy relative to the total energy production?

Most Dutchmen think almost half of the energy produced originates from sustainable sources, as much as 40%. 
The actual share, however, was only a sad 6.0 in 2016, and has not increased much since. 

This does not mean there has not been progress, sustainable energy production in the Netherlands has tripled since 2004.
But is this much? And moreover, it is enough?

As decided in the European climate agreement, 20% of the total European energy production has to be renewable in 2020. 
For the Netherlands this means that renewable energy production has to increase to at least 14%. Considering that the energy production
has been growing 4% in 12 years, which comes down to approximately 0.3% per year, the current trend is clearly not enough.  

Are we, in the Netherlands, performing just as bad as any other country, or is it us..... that are to blame for poor performance?
Nordic countries with plenty of elevation and water resources, such as Sweden, Norway and Iceland, are leaders in Europe with a stunning 50%. 
This in contrast to the UK, Ireland, Belgium and Cyprus, who produce less than 10%. 

Comparing all, the Netherlands with its 6% is the furthest away from the agreed European goals. 

So dear Netherlands, shall we give some more thought to how to make our energy supply renewable?



